**Should we go over (rethink) the concept of functional connectivity in M/EEG?**

Matteo Fraschini - Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Cagliari, Piazza D’armi, Cagliari, I-09123, Italy



**Abstract**

The idea to estimate the correlation among (interacting) signals recorded using M/EEG systems has motivated numerous researchers to investigate how the resulting networks (as defined by the correlation pattern) may reorganise themselves under any conceivable scenario. Countless studies have been published in the last decade where these correlation patterns have been extracted, both at scalp and source level, and successively correlated for example with behavioral and clinical parameters or used to contrast different groups of participants. Even though this idea is not at initial stages, its application is still far to be widespread. One of the concurrent causes may probably be related to the proliferation of numerous and different approaches aimed to estimate the correlation among these signals. Despite the substantial differences in estimating the correlation patterns, all these approaches promise to catch the real (less noisy as possible) underlying connectivity (correlation) among the (interacting) units (i.e., channels/sensors/regions), as if every single approach would have *a one to one* relationship with "Functioanl connectivity" (FC). This misconception has probably contributed to generate confusion and to hinder the comparison among different studies. Not only all these different metrics go under the same name (functional connectivity) but they have been (often) tested and validated using different approaches, therefore, making it very difficult understanding to what extent they are similar or not. It seems that the rate of growth of novel (or merely different) metrics is not in line with the development of methods that may help to validate the proposed approaches. The lack of this validation step makes the choice of any metric in a specific study absolutely arbitrary, with the tangible risk to generate additional noise in the literature on functional connectivity.
